You know, he thinks that you're doing this.
You're talking to James Chay.
He'll focus exactly if you have it in for the city.
It's something that has nothing to do with life.
And he doesn't know what that is.
Have you ever made a statement that you're going to make life miserable for the city?
No.
All I'm doing is this.
I would say, according to what the man said, I thought I'd give you an opportunity to respond to it.
That's ridiculous, is that right?
Yeah, I would say that's ridiculous.
I'm interested in libraries, I'm interested in books, as I told you on the phone.
I'm more interested in it as a case study for a political, social, linguistic life.
Actually, in a sense, I stumbled onto the library more than, you know, sitting out at home.
You know, I just kind of stumbled into it.
So I kind of stumbled into the library.
Well, I'm kind of a computer consultant, but I'm not economically motivated.
You know, I usually take the fifth on that.
I mean, I'm a citizen.
You know, the French Revolution's passed.
We don't categorize people by their class yet.
But, you know, I mean... Yes.
Yes.
Actually, I kind of view myself as every man, in a sense.
You know, I'm just a savage guy who stumbled into what I saw as things wrong in the library.
You mentioned some of the papers you brought me.
What is David Batsy's R2?
Yes, long before.
I'd be interested in finding out what you're really interested in.
There's so many facets of the story.
There's the foundation, which is a huge facet.
kind of Oedipus contracts.
I mean, this was envisioned.
We're talking about the New England Irish.
Did you say Oedipus or Oedipus?
Oedipus.
E-D-I-F-I-C.
It is, yes.
It's a pun, obviously.
For the sake of my state, so I don't screw it up when I can.
Yes.
Oedipus.
And actually, Kevin Starr.
Who I plan to talk to you about.
Wonderful.
I don't know how...
forthcoming he will be with you because he opposed the library.
Back in those days he certainly did.
As a matter of fact, he considered it a very, he wrote a column for a newspaper.
He was actually a newspaper columnist after he left his term as city librarian.
And he wrote a column in which he said the drive to create a new main library was a very harmful fantasy.
And he, the title of that column was The Oedipus Complex.
So you should ask him about the Oedipus Complex and that.
Do you have a copy of that?
Oh, sure.
Sure.
I didn't think of it, but I'd go ahead and send it to you.
And he's actually come on record since it was built, saying that this was, in a sense, turning the library around.
I don't want to put words in his mouth, but he's got a very sensitive position.
Because he's a state librarian.
He's a state librarian, and it's a political job.
And it probably plays very well.
He plays very well, yes.
And not only that, but...
There's a certain amount of prestige that goes with it, and he's, you know, he's a historian, very well public.
So, that being so, he's probably going to soften his previous position, but he was, yes, he was against it in the formative stages, because he felt it was an eticus complex.
And actually, as bad as the new main library is, the desperate insistence to create it is almost more harmful than the building itself.
Because it's really been almost a hostage situation.
They basically said, you know, we want a new main library.
We don't care about the function, we don't care about the books, we don't care about anything.
We want a new building.
Without perhaps even any concept of what a library is.
Without even a concept of what a library is.
And complete negligence, in my opinion, of what a library is.
I mean, they were willing to subsume the function to the drive to create a new building.
So what did you stumble on?
And give me a sense of the time.
1975.
This goes back 23 years.
This goes back 23 years, yeah.
What happened?
Well, I mean, I just...
kind of walked innocently into the library and saw some things that I thought a person would complain about.
Well, actually, I don't like to get into that whole story because it feeds into the whole panel's crowd.
there's something there that I'm refusing to let go that there's some kind of excessive thing and actually it's not that I mean it's now become a project having to do with curiosity and a sense of
personal duty and kind of an investigation into our critical life.
You know, I'm not trying to get revenge for what happened then.
And if I tell the stories, it'll probably sound like that.
But it was a situation that was kind of a blast, classic.
bureaucratic situation where people were just uh denying what had happened and were very hostile to outsiders and it was very much a uh a bunker mentality you know anybody who's an outsider is the enemy and they saw me as an outsider in their foreign enemy see i don't understand i'm not following the word i'm still i still don't have enough
I still don't understand what motivated you to launch a 23-year project.
Well, I mean, I didn't sit out.
Something must have happened.
No, that's not true.
But that's the sense that I have, correct me.
Why would you be... I mean, I'm from Massachusetts, I'm here.
I've got a totally open heart.
When I've read, I've seen some of these things fire coming.
It all makes sense.
I would like to have a sense of admission.
It makes you feel comfortable telling me.
If I'm going to write it, I have to know what I'm talking about.
I'm not involved in the library because I'm interested in myself.
I mean, I can go out and sell widgets and be consumed with myself.
It's not about me.
It's about, well, first of all, it's about my politics.
I'm very much what you'd call a classic liberal.
I believe in social equality.
I believe in a sense of justice.
I believe in the rule of law.
And all of those things
kind of come into play here.
We have what we euphemistically refer to as a democratic society.
But in fact, there's been a tremendous backlash against universal education.
I mean, the society is so geared towards
entrepreneurialism and commercialism and the sense of making money and the status associated with making money that we've lost all of those egalitarian values and so it has a lot to do with my politics and my perception that the public library as the people's university
was supposed to be open to everyone.
And not only when I showed up in the library was it hostile to me as an outside member of the public.
It's hostile to everybody who's not in the corporate mode.
You perceived this back in 1975?
Oh yes.
Yes.
I mean, and actually, you're probably coming across people like Andre Grimes and others who are saying the same things.
You know, but back then, I was kind of the only one saying, you know, we've taken something that was supposed to be published.
and turned it into a, a very much a, an upper class, a reflection of, um,
There's a certain kind of society that goes to the opera and is very proud of the fact that they go to the opera and they consider themselves more cultured, more civilized.
And of course going to the opera for them turns out to be more about spending about $10,000 on a dress than it does about the music.
Well, to a very substantial extent, the public library has been captured by that mentality.
You know, Mr. Coulter will tell you, oh yeah, we raised such and such, and people gave money.
Well, people gave money to get their names.
on all of their bookcases.
But if they gave a half million dollars to help the library, is that bad?
No.
If they gave a half million dollars to help the library, it's not bad.
But that is the crucial thing.
Because in fact, you know, Joe and Gus Fields,
He says, oh, I love libraries.
When I was a kid, you know, I went to the library and went after him.
So now he's Joe Industrialist, and he's got half a million dollars, and so he gives half a million dollars.
But what happens is he gives that half million dollars to a private foundation
called the Library Foundation.
And that Library Foundation has its own agenda.
When the Library Foundation first started soliciting funds, they had this very nice brochure that said, we're raising money for the house of the book.
And what happened, and what really happened
What really destroyed that building?
What really created Brooks Hall?
What really created this whole mess?
Is that they wanted to create the foundation in the space rental business.
In the what?
Space rental business.
And that's really the story.
Is they wanted to get a franchise with a foundation for space rental.
So what's the purpose, sir?
just to continue them as an entity, primarily.
But then you see how, you know, the nice industrialist with the half million dollars suddenly creates an entity.
The entity has got to propagate itself.
It propagates itself by entrepreneurial values, commercial values, and then, in order to keep the thing going,
it has to destroy its host, kind of like a classical parasite.
Really, like a classical parasite.
It destroys its host.
So anyway, that's a fascinating story.
I saw this in kind of embryo form back in 75.
and got entranced.
What specifically did you see?
Because, I mean, in 75, it was even 12 years before, or six years before COVID, it was up in San Francisco, it became an 81 and told me.
Oh, that's not good.
That's why I asked him on the table.
He's a former state left out of Nevada.
That's right.
So when did that happen if he's been here since 81?
I don't think he's that old.
Yeah, I don't know.
I thought he was younger than that.
I don't know.
Yeah, I haven't really investigated him on that story.
I wonder what is his background?
argues for him to have this extremely powerful position of determining the future and function of our political life.
I am a book person.
I'm the immediate past president of the Friends of the Library at Clarkson University in Washington, Massachusetts.
I'm the perfect choice for that job.
I'm a 20 year book editor, I'm a bibliophile, I've written a book about books, I write about books, I write about... I'm a good choice.
Why is anyone a choice?
Anyway, I don't need to digress anything.
I don't know.
Have you heard anybody mention Marjorie Stone?
Isn't she the one who has a roommate for her?
Yes.
She's the one who, she's the driving force.
She's the one who created the foundation.
That's correct.
What about her?
Well... Maybe I should talk to her or something.
Maybe you should.
She's, uh... Okay.
Why do you mention her name?
Because she was the driving force.
Right.
And in a sense, she was very Coulter-esque.
Actually, you know, I mean, these friends fall into a certain paradigm.
I mean, before the Foundation, we complained about the friends.
Before there was Coulter, we complained about a guy named Inlander.
As a matter of fact, one of the first things we said about England, about Culver, was that he out-Englanded Englanders.
This kind of move towards empire building, at the expense of the function of the library, and contempt for outsiders and the whole thing, has been around for a long time.
Yes.
Margaret Stern studied the friends too.
Well, the reason I bring this up is Kevin Starr was a city librarian for a little under three years, about three and a half years.
And he wrote a column in which he admitted that Marjory Stern fired him.
And he said to me personally on that subject that Marjory Stern was literally crazy.
Do you want to call him this as the screening panel?
Yes.
How did she have that power?
She was a library commissioner at that time.
And she, not only did she start the foundation, but she started the plant.
And she had been, by the time she lost her position,
on the library commission.
She had been a library commissioner for 25 years.
And I'm not sure why.
I suspect that Carlson and Colt had complained about it.
By that time, Carlson and Colt had had enough power and had our diagnosis either.
that they probably complained to Art Agnes about her, but I don't know.
I mean, that's something to find out from somebody else.
I don't know why, but Art Agnes let her go.
Probably only Art Agnes knows.
But she had been a library commissioner for 25 years at that point, so she was a long-term poet.
on the Library Commission.
This is the first time one of them, because I don't know if you've got a library in the library.
Oh, yes.
So she's the driving force, apparently, for the new library.
Yes.
I think she had a sense of what she wanted to do.
The library, I mean, is Ken Dowling, I believe.
Ken Dowling?
became a librarian, kind of at a time when they couldn't get anybody else to do it.
A guy who just died, and actually a guy you should really have been able to talk to, because he knew a lot of crucial elements of the story, was the guy between Kevin Starr and Kim Dowling.
There was only one librarian between Kevin Starr and Kim Dowling.
Holman?
No, Holman was before Starr.
That would be interesting to talk to.
I've never talked to him myself.
He predates thought.
In fact, he wanted me to come to Austin to talk to him.
He's very eager to get his take.
That's fascinating.
I hope Kevin Starr will be forthcoming.
It would be fascinating if he is.
I'll certainly find him.
All I can do is ask the questions.
He's in Sacramento.
You don't have to ask him.
I can find anybody.
Trust me.
So, Marjorie Stein fired Kevin Starr.
Why?
Because he opposed the edifice?
Yes.
And Kevin Starr makes it clear in one of these columns.
And actually, not only that,
But one of his novels, Land's End, is really kind of a Romare play of his experience at the San Francisco Public Library.
What's the name of the book?
Land's End.
It's a novel?
Yes.
I didn't realize he wrote fiction.
He did.
He wrote this.
It's a published book?
Oh, yeah.
Is the character a librarian in the book?
Yes.
Well, that's very interesting.
When was that published?
79, 80, something like that.
It might be hard to think.
Was the publisher a major publisher?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, I think it was... I've forgotten now, but it was like a... It was a major publisher.
It was a major deal.
Kind of.
Was it reviewed there?
Oh, yeah.
And what was the most nice?
It was fairly good.
Did they recognize that it was probably a take of his experiences here?
Oh, well, the insiders are here.
Matter of fact, there's a key going around somewhere.
I don't know if I've got it.
Because all of the people, he gave them
like substitute names.
When I say it's a Roma or Clea, I really mean that.
You know, I mean all of these people recognize themselves as characters.
Is it good nature, or is it kind of subtle experience?
It's relatively sarcastic.
And he describes in that how the Marjorie Stern in the novel, Firesman,
You have to talk to her, don't I?
Yes, probably you do.
She's relatively elderly now.
She's late 70s or early 80s herself.
I'll talk to Kelly Olsen last night.
She's 85.
I hesitate to tell you to talk to her.
because she can be quite seductive.
She's one of these people that's, but yeah, I mean, if I were you, I'd talk to you, it's true.
You know, truth is the best, the only way to get a real... So, so anyway, Marjorie Stern fires Kevin Starr, hires John Frans.
He was city librarian for exactly 10 years.
John Frans.
F-R-A-N-T-Z.
And it's a shame he knew so much.
He died in January of this year.
His widow is still around.
I don't know how much she knows.
But anyway, he was... Oh, you know who you should really talk to?
Is the lady who...
Gladys Hansen.
Gladys Hansen was city archivist for 20-some years or so.
And she was an old hand in the library.
Detective and your woman who's got the city archivist, Susan Taylor.
Susan, what's the name?
Taylor?
Isn't it Susan Taylor?
Oh, good.
Nice, nice.
She's going to do the good show today.
We have 50 photographs of the place.
Yeah, I don't know her very well.
So, John Franz was there for 10 years.
And Marguerite Stone basically fired him.
because we didn't support the new name I did.
And he actually wrote some very bitter things about how the library was a bad idea during the campaign.
And Gladys Hansen gave an interview to a newspaper reporter and she said it was a bad idea.
And it came down on her pretty hard.
Why did they always feel that it was a bad idea?
I mean, had it been a really wonderful design that had been built to accommodate books, would you be opposed to it, or were you just opposed to any building in principle?
No.
Actually, I think, speaking for myself, I wasn't against the Newman Library so much.
I was against all of the lies that they had to tell to build it.
Well, I mean, they said they would never move the Pioneer Monument.
The new Main Library was going to be able to go into that meeting.
Right.
Well, I mean, they said all kinds of things.
They said that remote storage was a bad idea.
They said you could never accept remote storage.
They said all of the books have to be on open shelves.
And there was a whole bunch of things about what the real capacity of the old building was that was alive.
It was impossible to remodel it.
You know, all this stuff, it was just pure malargy.
At what point did you become an activist in publishing these things, writing things, finding suits?
My very first suit was August 10, 1977.
Twenty years ago.
Well, it alleged that they were going to hold a secret meeting.
How did you know that?
Because they announced it at the previous meeting.
A secret meeting could do what?
Well, actually what they did was that they said they were going to hold a meeting at a branch.
And they said that they were going to have a tour of the branch
just for themselves that would not include the public.
And of course you can't do that.
If you have a meeting that includes a tour, you have to let the public come on the tour.
They said the law didn't say that, so I sued.
And of course they backed down
and allowed people to come on the tour.
Did you vote yourself?
Of course.
But of course it was dismissed because they admitted that I was right.
And then they'd turn around and say, oh well you lost because it was dismissed.
No, I didn't lose because it was dismissed.
It was dismissed because you backed down, which means that I won.
You know, I was dismissed because I won.
But that was, as you said, that was 20 years ago.
So how many suits have been filed off the air over the years?
Hey.
Seats keeping in two categories?
No.
Actually, there have only been suits in two categories.
One, duplicate net, open meeting suits.
And the Furman suits.
What are the Furman suits?
The Furman suits are the famous trust that he's probably talking to Nick Baker about.
Apparently he's talking to Nick Baker about it.
Yeah.
He really urged me to see you.
Uh-huh.
He said, ask you to tell me about the Furman suit.
So he didn't tell me.
Right.
Well, this was a situation where... Give me the full name of Furman, because this is my name.
Alfred Furman.
F-U-R-M-A-N?
No, F-U-H-R.
F-U-H-R.
Actually, not only did he leave some money, he left land.
Well, the crucial story is that he left four city plots in San Francisco.
Yeah, no, I mean they were housing locks.
Three of them were right over here on Ellis Street, and one of them was in Excelsior.
And so there was a plot in Monterey County, and there was a plot in Crane County.
And they discovered oil.
on the land in Kern County.
How do you spell Kern?
K-E-R-N.
Where is that?
That's like Bakersfield.
down and east.
It's like, it's desert.
You know, it's the great city.
German started out as a union activist.
He was a very strong union man.
He was in the Brewer's Union and the Siemens Union.
They ran him out of the union movement and he became a lawyer.
And he made most of his money doing probate work for the German community.
He spoke German.
He came here from Germany.
So what moved him to be such a German?
He was very specific about that.
He still believed in the working man, and he wanted to help the working man understand the system that they were living under.
Oh yeah.
Would you be able to send me copies?
Sure, I'll send you whatever you want.
I need to see the stuff.
Right, sure.
When did he die, do you remember up there?
Yeah, 39.
So this is now almost 16 years old in particular.
Yes.
And he specifically provided what?
He provided, well actually he gave his money to the city for two purposes.
Money and property.
Yes, money, cash, stocks and bonds, and land.
And actually at that time, you know, the cash was like $100,000.
Not bad.
That's a lot of money since then.
The stocks and bonds were about $240,000.
That's a considerable amount of money.
Yes, in those days.
We're talking about before the First World War.
That was a chunk of change.
It went second.
Didn't you know what I said?
No, before the Second World War.
Yeah, just as the Second World War was breaking out, you guys.
And he had money in Transamerican Court, Caterpillar, Bank of America, blue chip stocks.
And so he specifically stipulated... Right.
Well, actually, he stipulated, if you want the whole story, he stipulated two things.
Half of it was to go to Golden Gate Park.
for the further adornment of Golden Gate Park.
And the other half was to go to the public library.
Public parks and public libraries.
Things that people would enjoy.
That's right.
And to?
Not the opera, not the whatever.
The art museum, the symphony, the public library, and the public park.
It makes a statement, doesn't it?
Yes, absolutely.
And the part that went to the public library was to go for additional books on... For accusations?
Yes.
Well, what he said literally was additional books on political and economic subjects.
and he says elsewhere in his writings that he wanted the working man to know about the system that they were living under.
Geez, I like that.
I mean, you can really provide him with some of his stuff.
Oh, sure.
I mean, I'll put him with a copy in class.
Oh, yeah, no problem.
So, what really happened
was that they sold the property in San Francisco right away.
They carried the cash in the stocks right away.
They used the cash right away.
And it was kind of sitting there doing nothing.
And in the early 60s, they discovered oil on the Kern County property.
Which they fortuitously still owned.
So this started adding up to money pretty fast.
At one point, right before all of this happened... I'm assuming he had no heirs.
Yeah.
Actually, that's kind of a long story, too, because he had no children.
Never made.
But he had a sister.
So he must have provided for her as long as she never said anything like that.
Or he didn't.
No, he didn't.
He tried to cut her out of his will, and his...
Then brother-in-law actually sued and probed it to try to get a certain part of it.
And actually once got something, got a piece.
So in the 60s they discover oil, now they get more money.
Right.
And they start using it all through the 60s and 70s.
So they did adhere to the stipulations.
and actually it was getting so lucrative that at one point they were thinking about buying property in downtown San Francisco and calling up the firm on it, widely.
And the city attorney told them they couldn't do that.
There was four additional books.
Which, so they were just buying books and everything was fine, until Dowling came along.
And Dowling decided he was gonna use it
Ask him about the family.
Ask him about the family, yes.
By all means.
Have you decided to use the money except for computers and software and stuff like this?
Yes.
Business services, online databases.
And how did you find out that he was doing?
They passed a resolution in the open library community.
So he filed soon.
Well, yes.
Basically, I said, you know, this is not to the terms of the trust.
They ignored my letter, so I fired two.
And the court found that I didn't have stumbling.
Really?
Yes.
And you said this was when?
This would have been... 1990.
It's right after Darwin came in.
About two years after Darwin came in, yeah.
Three years after Darwin came in, yeah.
I thought the public library was a public library.
Well, that's what I'm trying to persuade you to say.
You know, they've got a different attitude about that.
Are you a taxpayer in the city of San Francisco?
Are you living in the city of San Francisco?
Yes.
Well, I mean, if you want to get into the legal issues... Well, I'm trying to establish your standing is what I'm trying to do.
Well, the court denied the standard.
How did the court deny the standard?
Well, their contention was that in the area of trust, the state attorney general has exclusive standard.
Exclusive standard?
Yes.
The state attorney general chose not to protest.
Well, at that time we didn't know that, that the attorney general was taking that position.
You know, I felt, you know, based on the law at the time, that it was like a taxpayer's suit.
They were misusing the property, why this has been given to the taxpayers.
The taxpayers were the beneficiaries.
I was a taxpayer.
You know, they should be required to use this right.
And actually, that's still kind of a fuzzy area of law.
But they decided that the taxpayer's situation was overridden.
by the trustee situation.
Usually a trust for the public benefit is to a college somewhere, and they don't want every student who goes to the college to have standing in suit, so they give exclusive standing to the attorney general.
But of course in this case, you know, there's that gray area where it's not certain whether
the taxpayer, you know, suing for taxpayer rights or a beneficiary of the trust, suing for beneficiary rights.
It's kind of a call you a little.
So I sued.
I was denied standard.
I went to the Attorney General.
The Attorney General.
You went to Sacramento?
I wrote a letter to Sacramento, yeah.
So you wrote to the Attorney General?
I wrote to the Attorney General.
Got a letter back from the Attorney General saying,
You know, this is the public arena.
This is not our area.
Taking the opposite view.
But, you know, you're taxpayers.
You've got nothing to do with, you know, beneficiaries, et cetera, et cetera.
So with that letter in hand, I went back to the court.
The court still did not understand me.
So at that point, I went to Quentin Cobb, who's the local assemblyman, saying, you know, how do we resolve this contradiction?
And he said, I don't know, we'll go to the legislative analyst, which is the legislative, the lawyer for the... So he may listen to you, please.
Yeah.
What's his name, C-L-A-T-T?
No, no, a cop.
K-O-T-T.
Quentin, they said.
Yes, Quentin.
And so we got an opinion from the legislative analyst.
to the fact that my remedy was to sue the state attorney general for not doing this job, which I did.
And in response to that suit, the state attorney general admitted that they went to the city at that point and said, if you're going to continue to do this, you better change the trust, change the terms of trust.
And so the city did that.
in effect admitting that they had to change the trust and continue to do what they were doing.
But unfortunately, the court allowed them to change the terms of the trust, which I still think was wrong.
By that time, it must have been late 93, early 94.
So therefore, they used the money now to go on?
They used the money for four continuous years to do whatever, and were retroactively indemnified, basically, by the exchange in terms of the trust.
Did you steal money in the trust now?
Oh, yeah.
Actually, the income in the trust now is up around $300,000 a year.
And a crucial part to the story is they changed the wording from books.
The original it said additional books.
They changed the wording so it said additional books and materials and other formats.
And based on that change, they spent all of the money on computer science.
How do you know this?
It's in the budget.
You know, there's still got to be in the public budget.
And just for the sake of the record, what's wrong with that?
Well, I mean, a lot of things.
First of all, it perverts what he wanted.
You know, he wanted books.
that there were no computers in there.
I'm just playing devil's advocate.
You're just asking me to articulate.
Yes, I understand.
Nothing bad at me.
This is my joke.
Right.
I mean, one of the crucial aspects of the suit is I was contending that not only did they violate the terms book, you know, things other than books, but they also violated the term additional.
in that they were replacing city funds with trust funds.
But just on the face of it, the term poor means a lot of things.
When this whole thing first started,
Somebody asked me if they were just using it on CD-ROMs, you know, book-like materials on CD-ROMs, would I object?
And at that point I said no.
I said, you know, CD-ROMs are, you know, vehicles for information that people read.
You know, it's close enough to what a book is, you know, that I wouldn't get excited about that.
In fact, they were using it on the computers themselves.
They were using it on what they called business services.
They were using it on online services.
They were using it on all kinds of ephemeral electronic gadgetry that wasn't educational material at all, but, you know, everything from stock quotes to, you know, just all kinds of stuff.
And they had perverted the guy's intention.
They went around saying that, well, economics is business, therefore he's a business benefit, yet in fact he's been a labor guy.
But after I got into this, I realized that there are all kinds of things about a quality of a book
That's got nothing to do with computers.
I mean, the mere fact that the form of a book... They go to the opera, yeah.
Yeah, it's kind of like, especially during the opera season, it's kind of like a pre-opera crowd.
There's a lot of issues that have to do with preservability.
I mean, if you took your, I don't know, your Apple One, or your, I mean, there's a lot of computers.
that they're outdated because they're five years old.
But a book doesn't go out of date in five years.
So just on that issue alone, if the guy said books, you know, he might have had a good reason.
But more than that, when people give them money, they do it through their own vision, their own values.
You know, they don't give it
for Mr. Dowling's values, except that, you know, I really don't remember a case in there.
Wills are broken, 1670 years after the fact, and we've got Wills and the government that were written before the Civil War, you know, or deeds.
I've read dozens of them in Massachusetts.
You know, the person says specifically prohibit sale of this property, correct, to anyone other than the member of the Caucasian race.
Well, that's the person's wish, but guess what?
That's thrown out.
Well, yes, it's certainly arguable.
I mean, I admit that this part of it is certainly arguable.
Because technology times do change, and the dead don't necessarily have the same rights they're living to.
Yes, absolutely right.
So, you know, I'm just saying that, you know, there's an argument to be made that, hey, there were no computers then.
I don't agree with the virtual library, but, you know, if the argument is made that this is where a library is going and the man has the interest, the best interest of the library, and this is what we're doing, we're not using the money to go out and
you know, repair the paper tires or something like that when they came into the money to improve the live work.
That's the argument that they make.
Whether they did or whether they did, that's a subjective judgment.
Yes, I understand completely.
Well, one of the things you have to realize is that that is the view I would have taken when this whole thing started.
I would have said, well, I mean, if you've got a CD-ROM encyclopedia, that's close enough to the court that we don't need to quibble about whether it's on paper or whether it's on paper.
They started getting hardware, is what you said.
They started getting hardware.
As a matter of fact, $600,000 a firmament fund was in the debt contract that your equipment corporation had.
You see, now I agree with you.
The money was starting to realize their vision of what a library is.
Good.
Is that it in the nutshell?
Yes.
And at a time...
when Mr. Furman's vision was still valid.
I mean, if they closed down the library, I mean, if a hundred years from now they closed down the building and everybody in the world, you know, knew the library through the internet, well then maybe at that point you can say that Mr. Furman's vision was out of date and it was time to change it.
But still,
We're talking about a time when 98% of the people still schlepped down to their local library to get a book.
You know, this is not a time when Mr. Fuhrman's vision was outdated.
Not only that, but according to your reading of Fuhrman's book, he quite emphatically stated that this money is to help become an individual, a working man, a woman, a discotheby, people who can't afford to go to peace, to go to holiday, the next door, the mail, blah, blah, blah.
And what do you think?
And what they do and run seems to run counter to that philosophy.
They were using it.
So, stockbrokers can get their stockbrokers.
You see, the spirit of what the man had in mind, even if it's not a book that's even wrong, it's fine.
If you go into the poor neighborhood and teach a black kid who's computer illiterate, they can computer illiterate books.
Then again, if you expand the hours, if you make it easier to eat, because as you say, you're pleasing, you know, getting instant accessibility to the Dow Jones and standard reports and all the other stuff.
This is not the spirit of us that you ain't had money.
Still, he died in 1939.
He drafted his will in 1938.
He was a probate lawyer.
There was teletype in his day.
There were phonograph records in his day.
There were tape recordings in his day.
If he wanted to say, you know, my will... Audiovisual.
Yeah, audiovisual.
Films.
Records.
Photographic.
Yeah, if he wanted to say, my will includes all those things.
He could have done that.
He didn't do that.
He said books.
That's great.
I like this.
I'd love to see some paperwork.
Sure.
I've got lots of stuff.
Don't be shy.
The more paperwork for me, the better I can.
All right, so let's now go to this organization, which is the original library.
Right.
It's not an organization.
It's just me.
Well, you know how all this started is they used to have a staff newsletter.
The actual staff had a newsletter called the official bulletin.
It came out once a week.
And actually, they decommissioned it for a variety of reasons.
Basically, it was critical of Marjorie Stern.
And the guy who ran it was a bit too clever.
So they decided that they would decommission it and run this guy out of the job.
So when they dropped it, I picked it up.
It's called mine.
the original official bullet.
Kind of, you know, keeping up that whole thing of tradition, yeah.
And so, having called it the original official bulletin, I just took the original card and made it the original library.
No.
Well, first of all, I feel that history vindicated me.
I mean, if you really go back and look at everything they said, which made it necessary to build that building, history has proved that all those things were wise.
I mean, I said they were wise, and history has proved they were all wise.
So in that sense, I've been vindicated.
There's another reason why I think I'm willing.
I think most people recognize
that this was a modern urban planning disaster.
That you can't take something for the public benefit and create a public, quote, public-private partnership to design and run it, and then expect that the public uses of it
will be respected or successful.
I mean, that didn't happen.
They ran it, designed it, created it for the benefit of these private-public partnerships.
It was a conversion, basically.
They took something that was a public asset and turned it into a private asset.
It was a conversion.
And to the extent that people know that story, I think our position's been vindicated.
Okay, what's next?
What's next?
Yes, continue the battle.
Well, you know, I still consider the influence of the foundation too great.
I think we have to neutralize the foundation.
There's still a lot of public access issues, you know, open meetings issues, vindication of the public
position.
All of those are still issues that are living issues.
I'm eventually looking forward to the time when I'll be
kind of diplomacied in for like a little bit of time.
Well, eventually, uh, Malcolm Baker, you know, started out as a radical, right?
And eventually it turned.
It doesn't turn, yeah.
And eventually the political shift moves to such an extent that he becomes like a pillar of the community, becomes, you know, a participant.
You know, I'm looking forward to the time when he's going to move back so far into the public, cultural, literary axis of the People's University that I will become like a respectable citizen again.
You know, I'm looking forward to that time.
And you go to all the meetings?
I go to all the meetings.
Do they let you speak?
For a long time they didn't, but they have recently.
They have recently, yes.
Do they respond to you or just listen to you?
Just listen to me.
There's a lot of progress.
They used to not let me speak at all.
And you get your three minutes?
I get my three minutes.
Yes, which is actually progress to this matter.
Are you an angry man?
Oh yeah.
I don't know why I wouldn't.
I chose it myself.
I've got nobody to blame.
So that was back in 1975.
And something happened if you haven't really been that simple.
Yeah.
And you physically went into the long run?
On a given day or something different if you remember?
Well.
Yeah, I'm coming back to it.
First of all, I want to know what you're saying.
I'm just going to turn this on the other side.
Okay?